JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
pope issues
a landmark manifesto on family
life, urging
greater tolerance for divorced
and remarried
Catholics, while standing firmly
against same-sex
marriage.
Then: inside the most
overcrowded prison in
America. Can reform help Alabama
out of a
dangerous system that's reaching
a breaking
point?
BRYAN STEVENSON, Founder, Equal
Justice Initiative:
The truth is, we have got
thousands of people
in jails and prisons who don't
need to be
there. And we haven't found the
courage yet
to get them out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
David Brooks
and Ruth Marcus are here, to
analyze the week's
news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The campaign
combat cooled
off some today in the
presidential race. Two
of the three Republicans took a
break from
campaigning, and the two
Democrats took a
step back from open warfare.
Hillary Clinton and Bernie
Sanders reached
a kind of verbal truce this
morning after
doing battle over who's
qualified to be president.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I have known Hillary Clinton for
25 years.
I respect Hillary Clinton. We
were colleagues
in the Senate, and, on her worst
day, she
will be -- she would be an
infinitely better
president than either of the
Republican candidates.
QUESTION: She's qualified?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Of course.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I think, in the heat of the
campaign, people
say lots of things. I want to
stay focused
on the issues. There are
contrasts between
us, and I think that's fair
game.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The
front-runner's camp also
dealt with former President Bill
Clinton's
confrontation with protesters
yesterday. At
an event in Philadelphia, they
jeered his
record and his wife's on crime
and race.
BILL CLINTON, Former President
of the United
States: You are defending the
people who kill
the lives you say matter. Tell
the truth.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Today, in Erie,
Pennsylvania,
he voiced regret about the
incident.
BILL CLINTON: I almost want to
apologize for,
but I want to use it as an
example of the
danger threatening our country.
I was talking
past her the way she was talking
past me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both Hillary
Clinton and Bernie
Sanders campaigned in New York
state today,
and Sanders announced he will
visit the Vatican
next week to speak at a
conference on social
issues.
On the Republican side, Donald
Trump canceled
an event in California to stay
in his home
state. He said in a tweet, "So
great to be
in New York. Catching up on many
things. Remember,
I am still running a major
business while
I campaign, and loving it."
Meanwhile, Trump's newly hired
convention
manager, Paul Manafort, insisted
the front-runner
will win enough delegates before
the convention
that there will be no need for
brokering.
PAUL MANAFORT, Donald Trump
Convention Manager:
The reality is, this convention
process will
be over with sometime in June,
probably June
7. And it will be apparent to
the world that
Trump is over that 1, 237
number, and at that
point in time, when it is
apparent, everything's
going to come together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ted Cruz was off
the campaign
trail today, while John Kasich
campaigned
in Connecticut.
In the day's other news, Pope
Francis called
for Catholics to put conscience
over dogma
on critical moral issues. His
statement, 256-pages-long,
suggested that some clergy might
allow divorced
Catholics to take communion.
There was no
change in the church's
opposition to same-sex
marriage. We will explore the
pope's statement
after the news summary.
Police in Belgium say they have
arrested the
last fugitive from arrested the
Paris attacks
in November. Mohamed Abrini was
picked up
in a raid in Brussels, along
with four others.
Prosecutors say he may also be
the hat-wearing
suspect who escaped after the
bombings in
Brussels.
ERIC VAN DER SYPT, Spokesman,
Belgian Federal
Prosecutor: At the moment, the
investigators
are verifying whether Abrini,
Mohamed, can
be positively identified as
being the third
person -- third person present
during the
attacks in Brussels National
Airport, the
so-called man with the hat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mohamed Abrini's
exact role
in the Paris attacks has never
been made clear.
Greece resumed deporting
migrants to Turkey
today, after a four-day pause.
More than 120
people were ferried away from
the Greek island
of Lesbos under a deal with the
European Union.
Human rights activists have
condemned the
deportations.
The government of Syria has
released an American
who's been held since 2012. He's
identified
as Kevin Dawes, a freelance
photographer.
Russia says it aided in his
release, flying
him to Moscow last week.
Meanwhile, Syrian
activists report that scores of
kidnapped
workers are being released by
Islamic State
militants. They were seized
earlier this week.
Secretary of State John Kerry
made an unannounced
visit to Baghdad today, and
urged Iraqis to
focus on fighting ISIS. He met
with Prime
Minister Haider al-Abadi, who's
facing a political
crisis over corruption, a
struggling economy
and poor security.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: It is
important to have a unified and
functioning
government as rapidly as
possible in order
to move forward, so that all of
these operations
are not affected, and so that we
give confidence
to the coalition.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kerry said that
Abadi didn't
ask for additional U.S. troops.
The Obama administration today
turned over
thousands of documents on
Operation Fast and
Furious. They involve a
gun-running investigation
that may have let Mexican drug
gangs get their
hands on 2,000 weapons. House
Republicans
demanded the documents four
years ago, but
the president initially claimed
executive
privilege. In January, a federal
judge rejected
that claim.
Wall Street finished the week
with modest
gains. The Dow Jones industrial
average was
up 35 points to close near
17577. The Nasdaq
rose two points, and the S&P 500
added five.
And an inflatable room is headed
toward the
International Space Station. It
was launched
today on a SpaceX rocket for a
two-year test.
NASA animation shows how the
pop-up module
will be attached to the orbiting
lab and inflated.
It could prove an alternative to
metal enclosures.
In another first, the booster
rocket landed
on an ocean barge today to be
reused.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the pope's
views on the church and the
modern family;
a look inside the most
overcrowded prison
system in the nation; why Kenya
is being targeted
by the terror group Al-Shabaab;
and much more.
Today's pronouncement from the
pope on family
life was two years in the
making. Pope Francis
explicitly called for the church
to be less
judgmental.
Instead, he said more support is
needed for
single and unmarried parents, as
well as same-sex
couples. Divorced or remarried
Catholics shouldn't
be judged or discriminated
against in church
life. Priests can be merciful
when it comes
to delivering communion. But he
didn't change
doctrine on same-sex marriage or
on the role
of contraception.
We sample some of the reaction
now with Amanda
June Gargus. She is the student
administrator
at campus ministry at Georgetown
University's
Law Center. Gloria Purvis is the
host of a
radio show on the EWTN's
Catholic Television
Network called "Morning Glory."
And Marianne
Duddy-Burke is the executive
director of Dignity
USA, which works on support
changes for the
LGBT community in the Catholic
Church.
And we welcome all three of you
to the program.
So, let's begin by -- I just
want to ask each
one of you, what do you think of
this latest
statement by Pope Francis?
Let me start with you, Ms.
Gargus.
AMANDA JUNE GARGUS, Georgetown
University:
I think it's a great thing.
I think it falls well within
what the pope
has been saying all year in this
year of mercy
of being in love with our
neighbors and how
we show mercy towards the people
around us,
so, the saints and the sinners,
those that
conform with how we see God's
love and those
who may not necessarily be
acting in the way
that maybe traditional Catholics
tend to think
of the church acting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gloria Purvis,
what about you?
What was your reaction?
GLORIA PURVIS, Global Catholic
Radio Network:
My reaction was, this is quite a
merciful
message. It had a lot for
everyone.
I think it was a challenge for
everyone. He
clearly speaks within the
confines of the
church's understanding of
marriage, faithful,
fruitful, faithful forever, and
yet, at the
same time, he says we need to be
merciful
to everyone, walk with them.
And one of favorite lines in the
exhortation
is where he says love coexists
with imperfection.
And so I think there is a
hopeful message
for all of us. We all fall short
of perfection.
But if we're willing to listen
and think with
the mind of the church and try
to form our
consciences properly, the church
is there
with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marianne
Duddy-Burke, what
about you? What did you think
when you read
this?
MARIANNE DUDDY-BURKE, Executive
Director,
Dignity USA: Yes, I find it to
be a very uneven
document. There are certainly
places where
it soars. I love the emphasis on
respecting
the formed consciences of so
many of us and
pastoral care, starting from the
needs of
the person.
I think those are fantastic and
really consistent
with a lot of what Pope Francis
has been about.
And then there are areas where
it really falls
short of what I think people
were hoping for,
and that's certainly true on the
issue of
LGBT people, where there really
isn't a lot
of progress in this piece.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What were you
expecting him
to say in that regard?
MARIANNE DUDDY-BURKE: Well, I
think what was
most encouraging about this
Synod process
was at the end of the first
session, when
there was some beautiful
language that came
out about LGBT people and how we
should -- our
gifts should be welcomed and
honored by the
church and how commitment
between same-sex
couples was -- could be a sign
of real grace.
And that language was rolled
back very quickly,
but I think there was some hope
that Pope
Francis might take at least some
of that and
move it forward a bit. And he
really doesn't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amanda June
Gargus, what about
-- whether it's the language on
same-sex marriage
on the LGBT, that affect the
LGBT community,
or on the statement broadly,
where do you
think it could have gone further
than it did?
AMANDA JUNE GARGUS: Well, I
think the important
thing to remember when it comes
to documents
like this is that the pope isn't
in a position
when making these types of
statements to change
church doctrine.
So, we have to be very realistic
our expectations
of what's going to come out of
these sessions
and out of these speeches. But I
think that
one thing that he didn't touch
on that I think
is very pervasive and very
obvious is the
church's role with
contraception.
We have seen the pope make
statements about
contraception, particularly in
Central and
South America, with the current
issues of
the Zika virus, but we don't see
him talking
more broadly about how families
should be
treating contraception. Is that
still the
church's doctrine? Are we going
to remain
in that vein? Or are we going to
have a more
fluid concept of when
contraception is appropriate
and not?
But I think he at least touched
on it somewhat
when talking about the
importance of sex education,
and that that was an important
aspect of child
development. But I think he
could have gone
a step further in helping
Catholics, helping
everyday Catholics understand
exactly what
the role of contraception is
going to be in
our community going forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gloria Purvis,
what about the
language or not -- the missing
language on
contraception?
GLORIA PURVIS: Well, I think it
was there
when he was talking about that
each child
is to be welcomed and that the
mother can
dream about the child with God.
What I would like to say, what I
would have
liked to have seen -- and we
talked about
structures of sin -- is the
consideration
that perhaps how society is set
up to make
the male as the model of
perfection is actually
something that is contrary to us
as women.
So, that is why we think that
our fertility
or motherhood is the enemy of
our progress.
It's a lot of times because of
how high society
is set up. And I would like to
see us challenge
that setup, because I think
there's nothing
defective about women. There's
nothing detective
in our fertility, but society is
defective
in its view of us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how would you
have liked
to have seen him change that
concept?
GLORIA PURVIS: I would like to
have seen him
specifically say, women, you are
not defective
because of your ability to bear
children,
and, in fact, society needs to
make more places
available for you, in respect of
that awesome
gift that you have.
If the human person -- if the
economy exists
to serve the human person, so
much so that
the economy exists to serve the
human family,
and we need to make sure women
can participate
in that economy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marianne
Duddy-Burke, what
effect do you think, what
practical effect
do you think this is going to
have? He spoke
about the role of individual
priests in interpreting
this and being more
compassionate. What do
you -- how do you think priests
are going
to look at this?
MARIANNE DUDDY-BURKE: Well, I
think this has
really far-ranging impact, both
within the
church and at the level of
policy all across
the globe, certainly in the area
of pastoral
care.
I hope that it will lead to less
dogmatic
interaction with people across
the board.
I hope that, you know, there's
more of a sense
that the church is first and
foremost here
to help care for people and help
us care for
each other, and that that really
needs to
be the starting point.
And I think there is a lot of
that kind of
language there. I think that we
really have
to see what the response is
going to be certainly
at the level of the bishops and
cardinals,
because that trickles down to
what happens
in the everyday lives of where
people encounter
the church in its pastors and in
each other,
that pastoral care often comes
from the people
of the church giving it to one
another.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MARIANNE DUDDY-BURKE: So, that
level, I think
the responsiveness has often
been there, mostly
been there. It's really at the
level of the
hierarchy where we start
struggling a little
bit more with rigidity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Amanda June
Gargus, let
me pick up on that point.
How much do you think is going
the change
in -- either in the teaching,
the decision-making
by priests, by bishops, by
individual Catholics,
as a result of this?
AMANDA JUNE GARGUS: I would like
to hope that
there's going to be some change,
that priests
are going to start using this as
a guide for
how to deal with married and
divorced Catholics
especially, since that was a
huge part of
the pope's message.
I think you're going to see a
lot of more
liberal priests using this as an
opportunity
to advance their -- already
their feelings
on it. They're going to see this
as an OK
to go forward.
But I think, for us everyday
Catholics, for
the ones who aren't in the
priesthood, I think
this should be the point where
we see our
role as evangelicals, as part of
the clergy
of Christ, as it were, to love
our neighbor
and to make sure that we are
protecting the
family, that we're guiding the
family, that
we're loving the family, but
we're also loving
those who may not conform to our
particular
ideas about the family, and that
we're showing
the love of Christ in that
environment as
well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Gloria
Purvis, what do
you see changing as a result of
this?
GLORIA PURVIS: Well, I think,
really, it's
a challenge to the priests,
because it is
an awesome responsibility to
walk with the
sheep, if you will, and to keep
us on the
straight path.
I don't like the terms liberal
or conservative
Catholic. I like the terms just
truth. What
is the truth of our teaching?
And it is not
compassionate to waive the
teaching to make
people feel comfortable.
I think what the pope is calling
the priests
to do is to walk with each of
the sheep wherever
they are and help us to grow in
holiness,
which means properly forming our
conscience
and being willing to listen. And
the priest
is going to have to be a bride
of Christ and
have the heart of a mother in
dealing with
some very troubled children. So,
that's what
I think is going to change.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we thank
all three of
you for helping us look through,
think through
what it is that the pope has
said in this
important statement.
Gloria Purvis, thank you. Amanda
June Gargus
and Marianne Duddy-Burke, we
appreciate it.
Thank you.
Next: Alabama's prison system at
a breaking
point.
The state currently packs more
than 24,000
inmates into a system designed
to house about
half that number.
Jeffrey Brown looks inside the
most overcrowded
prison system in the nation.
It's part of
our ongoing series Broken
Justice about new
approaches to criminal justice.
JEFFREY BROWN: The William C.
Holman maximum
security prison in Atmore,
Alabama loud, crowded,
and, when we visited just weeks
after a riot
broke out here, still in partial
lockdown.
On March 11, with just 17 guards
overseeing
more than 900 prisoners, a fight
broke out
between two inmates. An officer
trying to
break it up was stabbed, as was
the warden.
Video uploaded to Facebook by an
inmate using
a smuggled cell phone captured
some of the
mayhem.
And it took the prison's rapid
response emergency
squads to reestablish order. It
was a shocking
that unfolded here at Holman
Correctional
Facility on March 11 were, but
perhaps more
shocking is that no one we have
spoken to
is surprised that something like
this could
have happened.
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY (R),
Alabama: Unfortunately,
I think things like that will
continue. That's
why I think it's essential that
we solve this
problem, that we solve it once
and for all.
JEFFREY BROWN: We joined Alabama
Governor
Robert Bentley as he toured
Julia Tutwiler
Prison, a maximum security
facility for women
outside Montgomery.
The U.S. Department of Justice
sued Tutwiler
in 2014, citing corruption,
sexual assault
and harassment of inmates by
staff, just one
of a number of lawsuits accusing
the Alabama
Corrections System of violating
inmates' rights.
The violence, the overcrowding
and the federal
measures have pushed the solidly
Republican
state government into action, a
penal reform
bill passed last year by an
overwhelming majority
in the Republican-controlled
legislature,
and signed into law by the
Republican governor.
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: I know, in
Alabama, just
like in a lot of states, it was
a three strikes
and you're out type thing. And
so our prison
population has just dramatically
increased
over the last 20 years. So, we
need to look
at that. We need to look at a
different approach.
And that's what we're doing in
the state with
our prison reform bill.
JEFFREY BROWN: Republican State
Senator Cam
Ward spearheaded the legislative
effort.
CAM WARD (R), Alabama State
Senator: It took
many years to get into this
mess; it's going
to take as many years to get
out. We campaigned
and politicized it so much, that
it was easy
to get votes by saying, I'm
going to be tough
on crime.
It's a lot harder to say, I'm
going to maintain
a healthy constitutional system.
It doesn't
quite fit on the bumper sticker
the same way
that the first slogan did.
JEFFREY BROWN: Among other
things, the new
law, which just went into effect
in January,
creates a new class of felonies
for low-level
drug and property crimes that
keeps offenders
out of state prisons.
Alabama was the only state that
considered
all forms of property theft
violent crimes.
It's now reclassified
third-degree burglary
as a nonviolent crime. The law
requires the
hiring of 100 additional
probation and parole
officers. It mandates that
parole boards create
standardized guidelines
statewide, give reasons
why inmates are denied parole,
and reduces
punishments for minor parole
violations.
For the first time, the new law
uses risk
assessment to focus resources on
those who
most need them, and funds drug
treatment and
mental health programs for those
released
under correctional supervision.
CAM WARD: Ninety-eight percent
of everybody
who's an inmate in a prison
today in the United
States eventually gets released.
However,
what we're not doing is putting
the adequate
resources there to monitor them
when they're
on their parole, making sure
they're complying
with all the stuff they're
supposed to be
complying with.
We didn't do that. This
legislation did.
JEFFREY BROWN: Are you making
this push for
budgetary reasons, or for moral
reasons?
CAM WARD: Interestingly enough,
it depends
on who you ask who -- why they
support it.
You have some who say, hey, for
budgetary
purposes.
JEFFREY BROWN: We just have to
do this.
CAM WARD: This is the second
largest item
in our budget. We have got to do
something
about it.
Then you have those for moral
purposes. I
would say many of my Democrat
colleagues would
say it's a moral issue for them.
They have
had to deal or hear people about
this. And
then, finally, I would say,
myself, I look
at it from a legal aspect.
You're going to
run afoul of the Eighth
Amendment to the Constitution
if you continuing running
facilities and a
system like we have been.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Eighth
Amendment prohibits
punishment considered cruel and
unusual and
the threat of a federal takeover
motivates
Ward and many others.
BRYAN STEVENSON, Founder, Equal
Justice Initiative:
I think it is cruel and I think
it's unusual.
I think it violates the Eighth
Amendment.
JEFFREY BROWN: Bryan Stevenson
is a lawyer
and prison reform activist who
founded the
Equal Justice Initiative, a
Montgomery-based
nonprofit that represents
prisoners and indigent
defendants. He says the state's
reform efforts
don't go nearly far enough.
BRYAN STEVENSON: Alabama hasn't
done anything
that I would call significant
reform. We had
a prison task force that didn't
talk about
prisons, didn't talk about
conditions, didn't
talk about anything related to
the prisons.
We passed some really moderate,
minor even,
changes in some of our
sentencing schemes.
MAN: It's rough when you're kind
of elbow
to elbow to person.
JEFFREY BROWN: In Dothan,
Alabama, we asked
men who had recently been
released from prison
about the conditions.
MAN: It's harder to keep clean
when you got
all the people in there like
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Did you have
that, Dwight?
Was it crowded?
DWIGHT HAGOOD, Former Inmate:
Yes, sir. About
every day, there was a stabbing,
fighting,
cutting.
JEFFREY BROWN: Every day, you
saw things like
that?
DWIGHT HAGOOD: Every day.
JEFFREY BROWN: These men are now
receiving
help from Pastor Kenneth
Glasgow...
KENNETH GLASGOW, Pastor,
Ordinary People Society:
I'm just now hitting 15 years,
after doing
14 years.
BROWN: ... who, after serving 14
years on
a drug charge, created the
Ordinary People
Society, an organization and
halfway house
to help people transition out of
prison.
Glasgow applauds the efforts
made by the legislature
so far, but is also calling for
a more fundamental
change to the way people view
inmates.
KENNETH GLASGOW: We're not
ex-convicts. We're
not ex-offenders. We're not
ex-felons. Don't
classify us. We are people with
felony convictions,
people that have paid their debt
to society.
People. People.
BRYAN STEVENSON: Look, it's
still legal in
this state to impose a mandatory
life without
parole sentence on someone in
simple possession
of 2.5 pounds of marijuana,
using it for their
personal use.
I'm representing a man who's a
75-year-old
disabled combat veteran who was
found to have
2.5 pounds of pot, because he
was using it
to deal with stents in his
heart. And because
he had convictions from 30 years
ago in Alabama,
the judge had to impose a
mandatory life without
parole sentence on this man.
And that's the kind of
sentencing regime we
still have in this state. The
metric that
matters is the number of people
in jails or
prisons. You can talk about
reform all night
long, you can talk about
building prisons,
you can talk about all kinds of
things. But
the truth is, we have got
thousands of people
in jails and prisons who don't
need to there.
And we haven't found the courage
yet to get
them out.
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: We're very
proud of how
we have taken this facility and
done some
work in it. It still has
considerable limitations.
JEFFREY BROWN: Even if the new
reforms do
work, they will only limit the
overcrowding.
Governor Bentley now wants to
take a dramatic
next step. He's proposed
building four supermax
prisons, costing $800 million,
to replace
outdated facilities like
Tutwiler.
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: The
facilities we have
right now with 190 percent
occupancy rate,
almost 200 percent, I mean, this
is just unacceptable.
And it's dangerous, not only to
the prisoners,
to our corrections officers, and
really to
the public, and it's costing us
hundreds of
millions of dollars.
And so we can modernize the
system, and we
can try to correct and help
those who are
here, and that's our goal.
JEFFREY BROWN: But now the
governor faces
a more immediate political
threat: a state
ethics investigation into his
time in office,
including whether he violated
state laws in
conducting an alleged affair
with a former
adviser.
The statehouse, including
members of the governor's
own party, just moved ahead on
impeachment
proceedings.
The ethics investigation now,
does that have
any impact, do you think, on
your potential
to pass reform, prison reform?
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: You know, I
think that,
look, some people will think
that, and some
people may use that. I really do
not. I think
that the legislators who
understand the seriousness
of this will not look at that.
They will try
to solve problems, just like I'm
trying to
do.
JEFFREY BROWN: And how big a
priority is this
for you?
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: This is
very high. This
is -- right now is my highest
priority.
JEFFREY BROWN: Highest?
GOV. ROBERT BENTLEY: Highest
right now. We're
the closest right now to solving
this problem
that will solve a problem for
the state of
Alabama for the next 30 to 50
years. And that's
major. And we're going from, as
I say, the
worst in the country, we're
going to go to
the best in the country.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the meantime,
everyone agrees
there's certain to be continued
overcrowding
and more violence.
From Atmore, Alabama, I'm
Jeffrey Brown for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
David Brooks
and Ruth Marcus analyze the
week's news; plus,
how a paralyzed man finished a
10K race.
But, first, tonight we begin a
series, Inside
Kenya.
The East African nation is the
United States'
primary ally in the region, and
in the fight
against the deadly terror group
Al-Shabaab,
based in Somalia. Al-Shabaab
attacks government
and military institutions in
Somalia, but
it has also launched major
attacks in neighboring
Kenya.
Special correspondent Nick
Schifrin and producer
Zach Fannin traveled extensively
throughout
Northeastern Kenya, along the
Somali border.
Tonight, with the help of the
Pulitzer Center
on Crisis Reporting, we start
our series with
a look at how Al-Shabaab is
targeting Kenya,
and how Kenya is fighting back.
And a warning: The story
contains images some
viewers may find disturbing.
NICK SCHIFRIN: On Kenya's front
line against
Al-Shabaab, police on patrol are
armed like
soldiers. They search
traditional straw houses,
checking I.D.s at the barrel of
a gun.
JULIUS KIRAGU, Kenyan Army
(through translator):
The main threat here is the
Al-Shabaab. That
is terrorism, because they are
associated
with al-Qaida, and you know what
al-Qaidas
are.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Officer Julius
Kiragu heads
Kenya's administrative police in
Wajir, only
70 miles from the Somali border.
Every night,
they search for smuggled weapons
and hiding
fighters.
JULIUS KIRAGU: They pretend they
are selling
milk and all these things, but
they are waiting
for the appropriate time to
strike.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Most of his
officers are ethnic
Somali, like the majority of the
local population.
Some officers wear civilian
clothing and ride
around in unmarked cars. They
work with local
tribal chiefs, like Zein
Abdulla.
What kinds of weapons have you
found here?
ZEIN ABDULLA, Tribal Chief:
There were guns.
There were grenades. There were
ammunitions
and such things.
NICK SCHIFRIN: So, Shabaab has
supporters
even here?
ZEIN ABDULLA: So, they have
representatives
at least in every district.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Al-Shabaab has
waged a decade-long
war in Somalia. In 2011, Kenya
invaded Somalia,
in a campaign called Protect the
Country.
Emmanuel Chirchir was the face
of the campaign
in Somalia, and on Twitter.
EMMANUEL CHIRCHIR, Kenya Army:
This gives
an opportunity to tell the rest
of the world
what is true and what is
happening in the
battle space.
NICK SCHIFRIN: At first, Kenyan
and other
African troops pushed Shabaab
out of its strongholds,
and raised the Somali flag. But
after an operational
pause, Shabaab is strengthening.
In January, Shabaab fighters
took over a Kenyan
base. It was Kenya's worst ever
military disaster.
More than 100 soldiers died,
including Chirchir's
brother.
EMMANUEL CHIRCHIR: My brother
died immediately,
instantly. This is what he loved
most. I am
happy that he actually died
doing what he
loved most.
NICK SCHIFRIN:
Twenty-nine-year-old Dan
Chirchir
had only been in Somalia for
three weeks.
His funeral, with full military
honors, was
held at the family's estate in
Western Kenya.
The explosion that killed him
was unprecedented.
Al-Shabaab got inside the El
Adde base to
detonate a car bomb, or VBIED.
EMMANUEL CHIRCHIR: The
penetration of that
VBIED changed the game.
NICK SCHIFRIN: What can you tell
me about
the El Adde attack?
MAN (through translator): The
attack was carried
out by one of our brigades. They
were trained
commandos.
NICK SCHIFRIN: This 40-year-old
Somali says
he's a member of Al-Shabaab. He
says the El
Adde attack took eight months to
plan. He
threatened to kill me if we
didn't keep him
anonymous.
What's the main motivation for
you and your
men to have joined Al-Shabaab?
MAN (through translator): I
joined thee group
to get a job. Somalia is a place
where there
is no government and no work.
NICK SCHIFRIN: What is the main
goal for you
and your men in al-Shabaab?
MAN (through translator): We
want to have
an Islamic State in Somalia,
where Sharia
law is practiced.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Why you have
launched attacks
inside Kenya?
MAN (through translator): Kenya
has invaded
our land.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Shabaab claims to
be fighting
for Kenyan Muslims. It recruits
Kenyans to
carry out attacks in Kenya. The
worst in 20
years was on Garissa University.
How bad was the scene here when
you arrived?
HAMO MOHAMED, Garissa
University: It was terrible.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Hamo Mohamed is
Garissa's dean
of students. This classroom is
still scarred
from last year's attack. Shabaab
murdered
19 students in this room for
singing Christian
prayers.
HAMO MOHAMED: Bodies of the
students that
you know them by names, the
young, aspiring,
and you're seeing their body
lying down, you
know, their blood all over.
SOFIE GATRIWIRI, Student: They
came when I
was here, and then I would be no
more too.
So I'm just lucky.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Sofie Gatriwiri
is a junior.
SOFIE GATRIWIRI: I'm going to
finish my education
and get a better job.
NICK SCHIFRIN: She was a member
of the Christian
prayer group that was attacked.
How many friends did you lose?
SOFIE GATRIWIRI: I lost like 15.
I don't like
this discussing that story about
those people,
those students who passed. I
don't like at
all.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The gunmen lured
the students
down into this courtyard, right?
That courtyard is in Garissa's
largest dorm,
with students' rooms upstairs.
This was the
gunmen's final stop.
HAMO MOHAMED: It was ugly, what
had happened
here. And you see, you could
find the bodies.
You know what the manner, the
way they arranged,
they put them so close.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Side by side.
HAMO MOHAMED: Yes, side by side,
so that they
were just lying all over.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Shabaab gunmen
locked the doors
and killed everyone. This photo
was taken
a few hours later and posted
online.
This is the same spot today; 120
bodies filled
this atrium. The gunmen had gone
from bedroom
to bedroom, claiming they just
wanted to talk
to the students. So, many
students willingly
came down here. But when they
were all lined
up, they were all shot in the
head, execution-style.
Today, police patrol the campus.
Kenya says
the school represents resistance
to terror.
But, for this community, it's a
reminder of
decades of neglect.
HAMO MOHAMED: Fifty years of
independence,
and yet you don't have even a
single university
in the whole of the northern
region, Northern
Kenya. That's marginalization.
NICK SCHIFRIN: When Kenya became
independent
in 1963, the Northern Frontier
District covered
nearly half the country's land
mass. But it
had no higher education.
Today, Garissa is the region's
only university.
And for 50 years, northeastern
cities and
the ethnic Somali residents have
received
barely any development funds
from the central
government.
Has Wajir and the northeastern
region been
neglected?
HASHIM ELMOGE, Community
Organizer: Yes. It
was terribly neglected. For 50
years since
independence, we never knew
roads. We never
had good health facilities. We
have no good
education. We're still drinking
from dried-up
wells.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Hashim Elmoge is
a former police
officer turned community
organizer.
Today, roads are being built,
and local governance
established. But this is the
first new road
in Wajir in half-a-century. That
neglect becomes
toxic, when combined with
accusations that
security services abuse ethnic
Somalis.
Were you proud of your son?
ADOW ABDULLAHI, Father (through
translator):
I loved him so much.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Adow Abdullahi's
son was picked
up by police and disappeared.
And then Abdullahi
got a call from a town 40 miles
away. Local
media covered how his son's body
had been
found in a river.
Was your son's body tortured?
ADOW ABDULLAHI (through
translator): He was
strangled. He had marks on his
genitals. He
was tortured. He had marks.
NICK SCHIFRIN: How shocked were
you when you
saw your son's body?
ADOW ABDULLAHI (through
translator): I am
a Muslim. I have faith in God.
What a father
could feel is what I felt.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Can you point
where they hit
you?
OMAR FAISAL BASHIR, Kenya
(through translator):
They hit me here, all the way
up, and also
below here.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Omar Bashir is 19
years old.
He says security services
stopped him on the
street, took him away, and
tortured him for
four days.
Do you feel pain?
OMAR FAISAL BASHIR (through
translator): Yes.
NICK SCHIFRIN: What was your son
like before
this happened
MASHIR ULMAK, Father (through
translator):
He was sharp. He was healthy and
he went to
school.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Mashir Ulmak is
Bashir's father.
He is worried about his son.
These days, Bashir
skips school and is depressed.
Does the government single out
Somali Kenyans?
MASHIR ULMAK (through
translator): They single
out ethnic Somalis. They are not
doing this
to other communities in Kenya.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And when a
community feels
like prey, they want to become
the hunter.
OMAR FAISAL BASHIR (through
translator): I
know what I have gone through. I
was innocent.
I will treat people the same way
I was treated.
HASHIM ELMOGE: Because of the
seething discontent,
Kenyan ethnic Somalis are
feeling that Kenya
is not their home. So, some are
joining terrorist
organizations in Somalia.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The police deny
wrongdoing.
They say everything they do is
to fight Al-Shabaab.
JULIUS KIRAGU: The people, they
may not like
the operation, but we have to do
it.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Why did you have
to do those
operations.
JULIUS KIRAGU: The operations?
NICK SCHIFRIN: Yes.
JULIUS KIRAGU: Wipe out the
criminals. These
are the Al-Shabaab.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The relationship
between national
security services and local
ethnic Somalis
has always been strained. Today,
human rights
activists say it's close to
breaking.
HASHIM ELMOGE: The war against
terror is valid.
It is legitimate. As Muslims,
and as ethnic
Somalis, we support it.
Overwhelmingly. That
said, our government is using
terror to suppress
terror. And the people are more
angry. And
that is why Al-Shabaab is
tapping into that
anger, to radicalize and use
bitter young
men against our security agents.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Until Kenya stops
breeding
its own enemies, the country
will remain divided,
and Al-Shabaab will continue to
exploit those
divisions to wage war.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Nick
Schifrin
in Garissa, Kenya.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our reporting
from Kenya continues
on Saturday, when the "NewsHour
Weekend" looks
at why young men join Al-Shabaab
and the efforts
by some to get them out.
Then on Monday, we examine the
epidemic of
corruption in Kenya and the
people fighting
back.
Now the week's political news:
the renewed
war of words between the two
Democratic candidates
for president, a former
president's skirmish
with protesters, and how
Wisconsin has altered
the race for the Republican
nomination.
We get analysis now from Brooks
and Marcus.
That's New York Times columnist
David Brooks,
joining us from New York, and
here on set,
Washington Post columnist Ruth
Marcus. Mark
Shields is away this week.
And we welcome both of you.
So, let's talk about this war of
words that's
been going on the last few days
between the
two Democrats.
David, it's gotten -- the
language has gotten
tougher. It's gotten more
personal. What do
you make of this?
DAVID BROOKS: They're like
1/100th of the
Republican level so far.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: I think that I'm
most amazed
that Bernie Sanders wasn't here
months ago,
frankly.
You know, he made a decision
early on, I think
the wrong decision, to take the
e-mail issue
off the table and take a bunch
of issues off
the table and not go after
Hillary Clinton.
And so he really wasn't as tough
on her as
he could be.
Now he's going after her, to me,
on the least
promising possible grounds, that
she's unqualified.
Whatever else Hillary Clinton
may be, unqualified,
at least by any conventional
measure, is not
one of them. And so I'm a little
mystified.
I do not think it will hurt the
Democratic
Party. I think, if you look at
the polling
numbers, people -- most -- the
vast majority
people on both -- who support
either candidate
would be happy with the other.
And so I think
you will still get a reasonably
united Democratic
Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ruth, what do you
make of this,
and why do you think it's
happening now?
RUTH MARCUS: So, it's happening
now because
this is the stage in every
protracted primary
campaign where candidates are
tired, nerves
are frayed. Everybody kind of
wants it to
be over and wants the other guy
to go away,
or woman to go away, and to win
finally.
And so these -- this is the
moment when these
things tend to happen. And they
always tend
-- David is right that this is
really rather
tame compared to what happened
on the Republican
side.
I mean, on the Republican side
this week,
you had Donald Trump accusing
his main rival
of having committed a federal
felony by coordinating
with his super PAC. So, this is
pretty mild.
These things also always look
worse at the
time than they do in retrospect.
If you look
back at some of the words that
occurred between
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
in 2008,
there was a lot of angst at the
time about
how Hillary Clinton's supporters
would never,
ever be willing to vote for
Barack Obama after
what had happened to her.
Back in June of 2008, only 60
percent of them
said they would vote for Obama.
Well, guess
what? They did. He's president.
So, this is
going to -- we had ramp-up
Thursday yesterday.
Today was kind of tamp-it-down
Friday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Calm-down Friday.
But, David, you don't see this
having an effect
in the fall, that this could
come back to
bite whoever the Democratic
nominee is? We
assume it's Hillary Clinton, but
we don't
know for sure.
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
Yes, no, I really don't think --
I think,
first of all, as Ruth said,
wounds get healed,
especially around convention
time. Everybody
has a party. They feel good
against each other
-- with each other.
And then, you know, Ted Cruz or
Donald Trump
or somebody like that is sitting
out there,
a very good unifying device for
Democrats.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ruth, what about
this exchange
between Bill Clinton yesterday
and these Black
Lives Matter protesters in
Philadelphia? They
brought up the crime bill,
criticizing him,
criticizing Secretary Clinton,
his wife, for
being his wife, for supporting
him at the
time.
Now she's saying this is
something she would
change. But is this something
that has traction,
do you think?
RUTH MARCUS: Well, there's a few
different
risks embedded in there.
One is the sort of continuing
role of Bill
Clinton, who is simultaneously
her most powerful
surrogate in chief and also
Hillary Clinton's
most dangerous surrogate in
chief. So, when
he tends to have that
finger-jabbing red-in-the-face
moment, it can be a dangerous
moment for Hillary
Clinton.
In terms of Black Lives Matter,
again, it
sort of depends on the context.
Compared to
what? The Black Lives Matter
protesters have
an issue with Bill Clinton and
to some extent
Hillary Clinton and criminal
justice reform
and the 1994 crime bill. But
guess what? They
have the same issue with Bernie
Sanders. And
guess what? They're going to
have a bigger
issue even in this general
election with a
Ted Cruz or a Donald Trump.
So, it's an irritant, but it's
an irritant
-- and I don't mean to dismiss
it, but it's
an issue that Hillary Clinton
has tried on
the campaign trail to defuse by
saying she's
sorry for mentioning super
predator and she
is sorry, and she regrets a
piece of the 1994
crime bill went too far.
So, to me, this is another one
of those things
that looks like a bigger deal
this week than
it's going to look in a few
months.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David, what do
you think?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I think there
are a couple
true facts, most of which were
uttered by
Bill Clinton.
The one that wasn't was that the
crime bill,
the Clinton crime bill, didn't
have a huge
measurable effect on crime or
incarceration
rates particularly. It was --
some pieces
of legislation don't have much
effect. And
that was one of them.
The second thing to be said is
that there
are such a thing super
predators. And Clinton
sort of made that point, that
some people
are really doing harm to their
neighborhoods.
And the third thing to be said
is, we have
too much incarceration in this
country.
And so any honest appreciation
of this issue
contains two opposite facts. One
is that there
is a crime problem, and that has
to be cracked
down on, and second that there
is racism within
the enforcement community, and
that there
is overincarceration.
And I think Clinton -- the
Clintons sort of
stand for those two ends of the
spectrum here.
And that's probably what most
voters recognize,
that we have to be tough on
crime, and, as
Tony Blair said, tough on racism
or tough
on the causes of crime.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But to wrap up
the Democrats,
Ruth, looking like what in New
York, which
is coming up in another
week-and-a-half, the
New York primary?
RUTH MARCUS: Well, Bernie
Sanders is a natural-born
New Yorker, to use a
constitutional phrase.
Hillary Clinton is an adopted
New Yorker.
But she is in a much stronger
position. This
is a state that she's won, as
she likes to
point out, three times, in two
Senate races
and in a presidential primary
previously.
And so she is in a quite good
position with
New York. He's in a less good
position.
I have to say, as for New York,
I can't let
the week go without mentioning
that what a
great week in American politics,
when Ted
Cruz is going to the matzah
factory, to the
matzah factory, and Bernie
Sanders is going
to go to the Vatican next week.
So, how great
is American politics?
JUDY WOODRUFF: He just revealed
that, revealed
that today.
RUTH MARCUS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're going
to get to the
Republicans in a minute.
But, David, anything to add on
the Democrats
in New York? What do you see
with the two
New Yorkers confronting each
other, one adopted
and one home-born?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, if Hillary
lost here, it
would be -- that would be bad.
I think that, if she lost here,
if she lost
in California, that would be
bad. Otherwise,
she's still basically got the
math on her
side and she's rolling along.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David, let's
turn to the
Republicans.
Donald Trump took quite a
drubbing in Wisconsin
this week. Ted Cruz picked up
almost all the
delegates, I guess, in
Wisconsin, and he just
keeps picking up a delegate here
and a delegate
there. How much less inevitable
is Donald
Trump as the Republican nominee,
or is he?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, in the
corridors of cognoscenti,
if any of us are to be believed,
there's been
like a 180 in the conventional
wisdom.
A couple weeks ago, it was,
Trump is inevitable.
He's rolling through everything.
Now it's,
Cruz is inevitable. There's just
a lot of
chattering that suddenly it's
going to be
Ted Cruz. And the basic argument
is that Trump
will not get a first-ballot
majority at the
convention. And the sorts of
people who are
delegates to a Republican
Convention are the
sorts of people who like Ted
Cruz, and that
given the chance on a second or
third ballot,
they would love to dump Trump
and go to Cruz.
Magnifying the fact is events
like has been
happening or is about to happen
tomorrow in
Colorado, where the actual
delegate selection
process is something the Trump
campaign is
fumbling horrifically, and the
Cruz campaign
is pretty good at.
And so as we focus on the
delegates, and less
the raw vote totals, Ted Cruz is
looking pretty.
So, I don't know -- I think it's
a little
overstated, because I think Cruz
is about
to suffer some really bad
defeats. I think
he is going to look a lot worse
off after
the Trump-Cruz civil war goes on
for another
couple months, but, right now,
the glow of
inevitability has suddenly
shifted over to
Ted Cruz.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you see the
glow the same
way David is describing it?
(LAUGHTER)
RUTH MARCUS: I think to use the
word inevitable
about the Republican race in
2016 is going
to be all kind of constantly
wrong.
But it's just undeniable that
Donald Trump
had a very bad night in
Wisconsin and a very
bad couple weeks leading up to
that. And those
both affect this aura of -- this
shift in
the aura of inevitability,
because what we
have seen with Donald Trump is
underperforming,
underperforming on an electoral
level, right?
He won New Hampshire with 35
percent of the
vote, but he lost Wisconsin with
35 percent
of the vote. He is not -- as the
field has
winnowed, he is not increasing
his vote total.
Probably more significant is
something that
David alluded to, is that he is
not doing
well in this tension between
being possible
President Trump and being real
Donald Trump.
He's not doing well alleviating
the tension
between professionalizing his
campaign, which
he's trying to do with bringing
in Paul Manafort
to do his delegate selection and
convention,
and ad-libbing his campaign,
which is what
he is wont to do. And ad-libbing
his way through
editorial board interviews and
different discussions
of abortion has not served him
well over the
last few weeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, he's been
off the trail.
We haven't really seen Donald
Trump for day
or so, other than that tweet
today about tending
to his business, David. But is
there room
for Donald Trump to come back
and be this
term we keep hearing him say,
his wife wants
him to be more presidential, and
to get his
act together when it comes to
building up
his delegate lead?
DAVID BROOKS: You know what? I
think a lot
of wives have imagined wishes
for their husband's
change in behavior, but they
rarely come about,
certainly not in the case of
Donald Trump.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: You know, I do not
think he's
going to be more presidential.
He is an aggressor.
He's an attacker.
He's been doing that since 1990,
or since
anybody ever heard of Donald
Trump. And so
he is the same thing. He's just
not that substantive.
I think some of the
organizational problems
with the campaign could be
fixed. If you look
at what's happening in Colorado,
you know,
people show up at the
congressional districts'
delegate committee hearings, and
the Trump
campaign hands them who to vote
for.
But the people on the list that
they're handed
who to vote for don't match the
people actually
on the ballot. That's just a
basic organizational
incompetence.
I do think, however, he's going
to have a
bunch of rebound and he's going
to look a
lot better as we head to the
Northeast. Ted
Cruz is just not a
Northeast/Mid-Atlantic
candidate. And so the vibe
around Trump, as
he starts racking up some big
wins, will probably
change.
Right now, he's probably at a
little nadir,
but it is significant that a big
nadir could
come in Cleveland. It could all
come down
to that first or second ballot,
or the negotiations
up to that first or second
ballot. And there
is a much higher likelihood than
there was
a couple weeks ago that he won't
get there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, of course,
Trump's people
are saying that's not the case.
His delegate
man came out today and said,
we're going to
have it.
RUTH MARCUS: Right. They have
got it locked.
It's inevitable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But they are also
hanging this
phrase that Ted Cruz used back
in a debate
in January critical of New York
values around
his neck, making it a little bit
harder for
Mr. Cruz.
RUTH MARCUS: What a surprise
that they would
dredge up that phrase.
It was -- New York was going to
be hard, as
David mentioned, for Ted Cruz.
It's not his
natural territory. The Northeast
is not his
natural territory. Even if he
hadn't derided
New York values, that was going
to be difficult
for him.
And so that leads to the
situation we're going
to see Trump in going forward,
which is, things
are going to look better. He's
going to rack
up these wins. But, at the same
time, there
is this subterranean war for
delegates going
on that he needs to really
improve his performance
on to not have more of this kind
of Colorado
debacle that we're seeing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we're
watching it, both
terraneanly and subterraneanly.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ruth Marcus and
David Brooks,
have a great weekend. Thank you
both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ruth Marcus and
David Brooks,
have a great weekend. Thank you
both.
Finally to our "NewsHour"
Shares, something
that caught our eye that we
thought might
be of interest to you too.
Ten years ago, a car accident
severed Adam
Gorlitsky's spinal cord, leaving
him paralyzed
from the waist down. But that
didn't stop
the former high school
cross-country and track
runner from finishing a 10K race
last weekend,
thanks, in part, to a special
robotic suit.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Step by step, and
mile by mile,
29-year-old Adam Gorlitsky
walked the entire
length of the Cooper River
Bridge Run in Charleston,
South Carolina, Saturday.
ADAM GORLITSKY, South Carolina:
I'm feeling
good. I'm feeling very good,
very confident.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gorlitsky used a
robotic exoskeleton
machine to accomplish the feat.
He received
the system in December and has
trained two
to three hours a day with it
ever since to
prepare for the race.
ADAM GORLITSKY: Not only are you
walking,
but you're walking in the Cooper
River Bridge
Run. Come on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Friends and
family walked beside
Gorlitsky on race day as he
battled hills,
high winds and physical pain
along the way.
ADAM GORLITSKY: My wrists, man,
my wrists
feel like they're about to snap
in half.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And seven hours
after his journey
began, the man who was once told
he'd never
walk again finally crossed the
finish line.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
ADAM GORLITSKY: It feels really
good. It feels
really good. I'm speechless,
man. I really
am.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What an
inspiration.
And we have, finally, a news
update: The State
Department has sent to Congress
more than
1,100 pages of records on the
Benghazi, Libya
attack. A House select committee
requested
those documents in 2014. The
U.S. ambassador
and three other Americans died
in Benghazi
when Islamist militants attacked
a diplomatic
mission and a CIA compound back
in 2012.
On the "NewsHour" online: An
Indiana high
school student became one of the
early heroes
in the fight against AIDS. Ryan
White was
18 when he died 26 years ago
today. "NewsHour"
columnist Dr. Howard Markel
recalls White's
brave fight.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And tune in later this evening.
On "Washington
Week," Gwen Ifill and her
panelists tackle
the week's big news -- Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: Hey, Judy.
The Democrats are battling, the
Republicans
are jockeying, and everyone is
riding the
subways, eating pasta and making
matzah. Not
making that up. Yes, it's the
New York primary.
But we take you behind the
scenes to the real
fights over delegates and to the
secret world
of offshore tax havens with
reporters from
The Washington Post, CNN, The
Wall Street
Journal and The Los Angeles
Times, later tonight
on "Washington Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Can't wait. We
thank you.
And we will be back right here
on Monday with
a look at an extensive effort to
document
war crimes in Syria.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Have a great weekend. Thank you,
and good
night.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.